##############################################################################
# RackMonkey - Know Your Racks - http://www.rackmonkey.org                   #
# Version 1.2.%BUILD%                                                        #
# (C)2004-2007 Will Green (wgreen at users.sourceforge.net)                  #
# RackMonkey User Guide                                                      #
##############################################################################

User Guide to RackMonkey v1.2
=============================
This document is at a very early stage. Updates will be forthcoming shortly.
You can also get help by selecting the 'Help' tab from within RackMonkey.

Tip: Hovering your mouse over many items provides additional information.

First Steps
===========
Get basic information about your set up into the system:
 * Add your own organisation and mark it as a customer so you can assign it to
   devices used internally.
 * If you have a few key customers add them as organisations (you can also add
   them as you add devices).
 * Add one or more domains for your servers, e.g. flux.org.uk
 * Add your locations (buildings, rooms etc.)
 * Add some hardware (though you can do this as you add devices)

Optional Information to add:
 * Add service levels
 * Add extra roles if the included roles aren't suitable
 * Add extra operating systems

You are now ready to add devices
 * You can add them from the devices view
 * You can add from rack layout view: which is more convenient if you're
   adding devices a rack at a time or want to find a free spot for a device.


Finding and Viewing a Device
============================
If you select [Devices] from the top nav bar you will get a complete list of
all the devices you have recorded in RackMonkey. You can sort any of the
columns by clicking on its name and use the filter dropdowns to restrict which
devices are displayed (e.g. to see those for one customer, or all those
running Windows 2000). To view more details for a device just click on its
name.

You can customise the device list view by selecting alternative views from the
'View Type' dropdown at the top left of the view. This allows you to see
device asset information, extended information or just those devices currently
not racked.

To see a device in its rack, simple click on its location in the rack column.
This will take you to the relevant rack view with the device highlighted.


Querying Dell Warranty and Specification Information
====================================================
If you enter a serial number for a device whose hardware is manufactured by
'Dell' you will get a 'Query Dell...' link next to the serial number after you
save the device. This link takes you to a page on the Dell site which show
warranty information and the original configuration of the server. This is an experimental feature: feedback is very welcome.


Restricting Access and Recording Who Made Changes
=================================================
If you protect your rackmonkey.pl script with a .htaccess file RackMonkey will
record the username of the person performing any edits. Otherwise RackMonkey
just records the IP address. Giving each user a separate .htaccess account
will allow you to keep track of who did what when. The last update is shown at
the bottom of single views or a history can be obtained with the logdump 
command (see below).

For information on setting up authentication using Apache see:
http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/auth.html

Guest access
------------
RackMonkey v1.2.3 or higher supports a guest account. If you create a user in
.htaccess whose name is 'guest' (any case) that user can view everything 
within RackMonkey, but when the they try to save any changes or create a new
entry they will get the error "You are logged in as 'guest'. Guest users can't
update RackMonkey.".


Reviewing Update Log
====================
Run the logdump command to see a history of changes to the RackMonkey
database. This script can be found in the perl/bin directory of the RackMonkey
distribution. Run logdump with -h to see command line options.
